[MUSIC]
The first time you boot up your
Raspberry Pi after you've installed our
Raspi operating system on there.
The first time you boot it up,
you're gonna get a screen that
looks like what you see here.
That's running a tool,
it's showing a tool called Raspi-Config.
It's a configuration tool.
This'll pop up the first time you boot.
But also,
you can run it yourself later on if you
want to, to change configuration options.
But the first time it pops up.
And so you get something like
what you see down there.
And it gives you a bunch of setup options
for the raspi in operating system.
So it runs automatically.
And you can see the options.
We're gonna go through
some of these options,
to give you an idea of whether you want
to set how you want to set these things.
You're getting all this
first times if you want to.
But let's just go through
some of these options.
So, expand file system.
That's the first one that reformats your
micro SD to use the rest of their memory.
So what happens is, you first do it.
When you first install,
maybe your micro SD card has a lot.
Maybe you got a big one, 16 gig or
something like that or bigger, a 16 gig.
But it won't use that with
the initial configuration.
When you install the operating
system it give you the space.
It uses up space for
the operating system plus a little more.
You won't even see the rest of the card,
right?
So there'll be lots of memory
on the card that you can't use,
cuz you can't see from
the Linux file system.
So if you click on Expand Filesystem, it
reformats it so you can use all the memory
on the micro SD, which is a good idea.
Change user password.
So change user password
does just what it says.
So one thing to mention is that
this operating system, Linux.
It has users.
Different users can log in.
So you have to type in.
When you start up, you have to
type in a username and a password.
And the username, the one account that
it creates is the pi account, p i,
that's the username.
And it comes up with a password.
The default password for
that account is raspberry.
But you can change that if you want to.
So change user password
you can do at this stage.
The next item is to enable
boot to desktop/scratch.
So what this is,
is that it's what happens when you boot.
So when you boot this is determining
what type of interface you get for
the operating system at boot time.
So there are three options they give you.
Desktop, this could be
console desktop scratch.
Console is what you see
at the bottom left.
Just the straight text-based
interface that we've seen before,
we already talked about.
That would be console.
Purely text-based.
The next option is desktop.
Desktop is the graphic interface
that you see bottom right.
And that's what you would be used to with
your standard operating systems, okay?
And I probably recommend that one.
The next one is Scratch.
Scratch is a programming environment for
kids, let's not use that.
It's fine, but
my kids have already outgrown it.
It's not necessary,
I don't think, for our purposes.
So it's nice for a kid,
you know, it's nice for
a kid to learn programming first time.
But I'm thinking we're beyond that,
so don't use that.
But using the desktop We use console.
Now for us, I'm going to assume,
we're mostly going to go with desktop.
Okay, we're gonna go with
the graphical user interface.
You need the console option too.
But from the graphical user interface,
you can invoke the console.
So graphical user interface option,
the desktop option is usually the best.
And then you can open a console
whenever you want to.
Whereas, if you just go with console,
all you see is the console.
So that's what I'm assuming
we're going to be doing.
The desktop graphic userface
may not be necessary, right,
depends on how you're
using this raspberry pi.
If you're using this raspberry
pi as part of an IOT device.
Then you probably don't want
the user interacting directly with
the raspberry pi.
So you don't need the desktop option.
All right, that just a regular old
console would be fine in that case.
So there are cases where
you don't need to desktop.
But for us we're pretty much gonna
use a desktop to make things easier.
The next selection would be
Internationalisation and Rastrack.
So internationalisation is basically
setting up all these options.
So default is set up for use in the US.
So you change things.
You can change the language.
You can change the timezone,
which you have to do in the US also.
You can change the keyboard layout
if you want to, things like that.
I didn't change any of those,
just so you know.
But I'm in the US,
all of that stuff was fine for me.
Rastrack is just a service that allows
Raspberry Pi users to find other
Raspberry Pi users.
So it gives, it distributes your location,
your IP address,
and from the IP address
it infers the location.
That's completely optional and I did
not select that, but that's up to you.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]